Article Title: 5 Best Hardware Wallets to Use With MetaMask in 2024

Article Text:
MetaMask is the world’s most popular cryptocurrency wallet software thanks to its strong security and straightforward user experience. Although the MetaMask software is considered highly secure, cryptocurrency users face risks that aren’t related to the wallet software they are using.
For example, if you store your private keys on your computer and your computer gets infected with malware, hackers will be able to steal your cryptocurrency regardless of which software wallet you are using.
The best way to mitigate such risks is to use a hardware cryptocurrency wallet, which provides a secure offline environment for storing your private keys. You can use a hardware wallet to confirm transactions you make with MetaMask without your private keys ever touching your computer or smartphone.
In this article, we will be highlighting hardware wallets that are integrated with MetaMask to help you boost the security of your cryptocurrency holdings while enjoying the convenience offered by the MetaMask wallet.
Hardware wallets manufactured by Ledger are widely regarded as the safest and most reliable way to store Bitcoin and other crypto assets. As long as the seed phrase storage is handled with care, there's no way that any malicious actor or software could endanger the safety of your crypto.
Buy a Ledger Hardware Wallet
Now, let’s take a closer look at each crypto hardware wallet that’s supported by MetaMask.

Ledger is the market leader when it comes to hardware wallets, and its devices are seamlessly integrated with MetaMask. Ledger’s hardware wallets support more than 500 different cryptocurrencies and feature an EAL 5+ certified Secure Element.
You can use your Ledger wallets with your computer or mobile device. Here, it’s important to mention that while the Ledger Nano X supports both iOS and Android devices, the Ledger Nano S Plus is limited to Android when it comes to mobile devices. When used with desktop computers, all Ledger devices support Windows, MacOS and Linux operating systems.
Regardless of which Ledger hardware wallet you choose to use with MetaMask, you will greatly improve the security of your cryptocurrency investments. Here is the current lineup of Ledger’s hardware wallets:
If you don’t need Bluetooth connectivity or don’t use an iOS device to make crypto transactions, the Ledger Nano S Plus is the more sensible choice over the Ledger Nano X thanks to its considerably lower price. On the other hand, users that are looking for a more premium experience will likely find the upcoming Ledger Stax wallet to be a very compelling option.
Get a Ledger Hardware Wallet

Trezor is a reputable hardware wallet manufacturer known for its highly secure and open-source devices. Trezor hardware wallets support a solid selection of different cryptocurrencies, although the company’s cheapest model (Trezor Model One) is fairly limited in this regard.
Trezor offers PIN codes, passwords, and other additional security tools to ensure the secure protection of cryptocurrencies. In this way, even if your wallet is stolen, access to the funds is virtually impossible.
If you’re choosing between buying a Trezor or a Ledger wallet, there are a few things to consider. To sum it up, you should choose a Trezor wallet if you don’t plan on using your crypto wallet with a mobile device, you want to have a bigger screen, and you value open-source solutions.
There are currently three hardware wallets in Trezor’s lineup of products:
If you want to learn more about how Trezor’s two most popular models stack up against each other, we provide a Trezor Model T vs Trezor Model One comparison.
Get a Trezor Hardware Wallet

Keystone Pro is a high-security, air-gapped hardware wallet designed to provide robust protection for crypto assets. Priced at $169, the Keystone Pro has an array of advanced security measures, including biometric authentication via an integrated fingerprint scanner.
The device ensures security through the use of Shamir backups for wallet recovery and includes a self-destruct mechanism that activates if tampering is detected. As a strictly air-gapped unit, Keystone Pro does not allow connections through Bluetooth or USB, and instead relies on QR codes scanned by its camera to facilitate secure transactions.
For those looking for a more budget-friendly option, Keystone also offers the Keystone Essential wallet. Available at $119, this version lacks the fingerprint authentication, self-destruct functionality, and rechargeable batteries found in the Pro model, providing a basic yet secure alternative for managing cryptocurrency. Both versions include a 4-inch color touchscreen that clearly displays transaction details and wallet addresses.

The Lattice 1 is a hardware cryptocurrency wallet created by Grid+. This wallet caters to the most demanding users, as it has arguably the most comprehensive suite of features of any hardware wallet on the market today. The Lattice 1’s biggest downside is its price, as the device costs nearly $400.
The Lattice 1 is equipped with a large touchscreen which makes it very easy for the user to verify the details of the transaction they are signing. The device has 64 GB of internal storage, and a number of advanced security features designed to prevent tampering and a wide range of potential attacks.
Lattice 1 can be used with Ethereum and Bitcoin, as well as ERC-20 tokens and any blockchain that’s based on the Ethereum Virtual Machine – examples include BNB Chain, Arbitrum and Polygon.

AirGap Vault is an app that allows users to turn a spare smartphone into a cold wallet. The application should be installed on a smartphone that is never connected to any networks. Then, the device can be used to securely store private keys and authorize transactions by generating QR codes which can be scanned with another smartphone.
AirGap Vault saves private keys in the smartphone’s secure enclave and uses biometric authentication to provide additional security. The app also offers a social recovery option, which allows users to split a private key into multiple shares which can be stored in different places or by different people.
While this is a very interesting option for storing cryptocurrency securely, AirGap Vault supports a fairly limited number of cryptocurrencies. This solution supports 8 cryptocurrency networks, as well as various ERC-20 tokens issued on the Ethereum blockchain.
There’s a solid selection of hardware wallets that can be effectively used with MetaMask, ranging from cost-effective wallet such as the Ledger Nano S Plus and Trezor Model One to feature-pack wallets such as the Grid+ Lattice 1. Hopefully, our list has helped you find a hardware wallet that will perfectly suit your needs.
To conclude, we should mention that in addition to getting a hardware wallet, another way to improve the security of your crypto holdings is to set up a durable metal seed phrase backup.
