Article Title: Crypto Analyst Predicts 350% Surge For Shiba Inu – Here’s The Target

Article Text:
Crypto analyst Crypto Dona has predicted a 350% price surge for Shiba Inu (SHIB). He suggested that the meme coin will unlikely go higher than that in this bull run.
Crypto Dona revealed in an X (formerly Twitter) post that his price target for Shiba Inu is $0.00011 and that he doesn’t see the meme coin going higher. A rise to that level represents a 350% price surge for the meme coin, which will undoubtedly appeal to Shiba Inu investors.
Related Reading: Here’s How This Ethereum Whale Made $16 Million From A Single Trade
Source: X
Crypto Dona joins a host of other crypto analysts who predict that Shiba Inu could shed another zero from its current price level and rise to $0.0001. However, some of these analysts have given a way higher price prediction than Crypto Dona’s. One is Javon Marks, who predicts that Shiba Inu could rise to as high as $0.0001553.
Crypto analysts like Armando Pantoja and Ali Martinez have also made much higher predictions, predicting that Shiba Inu could rise to $0.001 and $0.011, respectively. Forecasts like these have undoubtedly raised the expectations for SHIB in this bull run, with community members optimistic that the meme coin could flip Dogecoin (DOGE) in this market cycle.
Shiba Inu’s lead developer, Shytoshi Kusama, is also confident about the meme coin’s potential in this market cycle. He suggested that the meme coin is in a good position to lead this season. He alluded to Shiba Inu’s technology, vision, plan, and community as some of the reasons he holds this belief.
While Shiba Inu undoubtedly looks primed to make big moves in this bull run, the first step will be for the meme coin to rise above its current all-time high of $0.00008845, as it is currently 70% down from that price level. Shiba Inu’s Marketing Lucie has earlier predicted that the meme coin could hit a new ATH before or shortly after the Bitcoin Halving.
Related Reading: Can Ethereum Reclaim $4,000? Fragile Fundamentals Threaten To Send ETH Crashing
Crypto analyst and trader Xanrox also hinted that SHIB may hit a new ATH of $0.00008854 by July. Shiba Inu rising to a new ATH by then could set the pace for it to hit other bullish price predictions that crypto analysts have made for the meme coin. Meanwhile, it is also worth mentioning that Shiba could soon come close to its current ATH with Ali Martinez highlighting a bull flag on Shiba Inu’s chart which he belives could send the meme coin to $0.000072323.
At the time of writing, Shiba Inu is trading at around $0.0000227, down over 4% in the last 24 hours, according to data from CoinMarketCap.

SHIB price retraces from recovery | Source: SHIBUSDT on Tradingview.com
