Article Title: Daily Market Review BTC, ETH, LDO, TRX, CHZ

Article Text:
Today’s market session has seen bears remain dominant as seen from the drop in the global market cap. The total cap stood at $2.28T as of press time, representing a 0.64% decrease over the last 24 hours while the trading volume also dropped by 0.5% to stand at $64.11B as of the same period.
Bitcoin (BTC) is among today’s gainers as seen from its price movements. Analysing Bitcoin price charts, we see that the price is near the upper band suggesting potential overbought conditions. On the other hand, at 53.74, the RSI indicates neither overbought nor oversold conditions, aligning with the consolidation phase.
Conversely, the 20-period SMA is slightly above the current price, indicating a possible resistance area. As of press time, the Bitcoin price stood at $63,099, representing a 2.5% increase from its previous 24-hour price.
Ethereum (ETH) has also made it to today’s gainers list as evidenced by its price movements. Looking at an in-depth analysis, we see that the MACD line below the signal line and a histogram below zero suggest bearish momentum.
On the other hand, analysing other indicators, we see the Ethereum price is below the SuperTrend line, confirming the bearish trend. During writing, the Ethereum price stood at $3,048, representing a 1.6% increase from its previous 24-hour price.
Lido DAO (LDO) is also another gainer in today’s session as evidenced by its price movements. Looking at an in-depth analysis, we see that LDO is trading in a tight range with no significant directional momentum. The Lido DAO price is trading within the ichimoku cloud, indicating uncertainty and a lack of clear trend.
On the other hand, the Average Directional Index (ADX) holds a value of 12.22, which suggests a very weak or absent trend. During writing, the Lido DAO price stood at $1.9, representing a 1.65% increase from its previous 24-hour price.
Tron (TRX) is also another gainer in today’s session as evidenced by its price movements. Looking at an in-depth analysis, we see that TRON has been in a bullish trend, as evidenced by the price consistently finding support above the moving averages. Looking at indicators, we see Alligator Indicator jaw, teeth, and lips are well-aligned upwards, confirming the bullish trend.
On the other hand, looking at the Woodies CCI, we see that it is above zero, supporting the bullish momentum. During writing, the Tron price stood at $0.1269, representing a 2.12% increase from its previous 24-hour price.
Chilliz (CHZ) is also another top gainer today as seen from its price movements. Looking at an in-depth analysis of Chilliz price charts, we see that Chiliz shows a slight upward trend within a range, with recent candles closing above the middle of the Ichimoku cloud.
Looking at other indicators, we see that the Chilliz price is at the upper boundary of the cloud, possibly indicating an upcoming bullish trend if sustained. On the other hand, the Awesome Oscillator shows green bars are forming, suggesting rising bullish momentum. During writing, the Chilliz price stood at $0.1296, representing a 6% increase from its previous 24-hour price.
