Article Title: Donald Trump says he’s ‘fine with crypto,’ slams Biden not understanding it

Article Text:
Amid the presidential elections campaign in the United States picking up steam, the former US President Donald Trump has expressed support for the cryptocurrency sector, pointing out at the differences on this issue between him and his rival, the current US President Joe Biden.
As it happens, Trump was answering questions from the audience during an exclusive dinner for buyers of his Mugshot Edition non-fungible tokens (NFTs) at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Palm Beach, Florida, as per a series of video clips shared by Frank Degods, a prominent figure in the NFT realm, on May 9.
Indeed, in one of these videos, the former President argued that the incumbent US President didn’t even understand crypto and that the US Securities and Exchange Commission, alongside the Democratic Party, was “very much against it,” but that he himself was “fine with it,” suggesting that other crypto supporters should vote for him.
“If you asked Biden, ‘Sir, are you for or against crypto?,’ [he’d say] ‘What’s that?’ (…) He has no idea, but look, [SEC chair Gary] Gensler is very much against it, the Democrats are very much against it, and I say this: a lot of people are very much for it, probably a lot of people in this group, and I’m fine with it, I want to make sure it’s good and solid and everything else, but I’m good with it.”
BREAKING: DONALD TRUMP IS FINE WITH CRYPTO pic.twitter.com/SCJDKdHQUB
Furthermore, the influencer shared a video of him asking Trump how he was going to keep crypto businesses in America, to which the former President acknowledged that these businesses were leaving because of the regulatory “hostility toward crypto,” and promised to stop it and “let them be here.”
On top of that, Trump reassured his supporters from the crypto and NFT sphere of his dedication to enabling crypto contributions to his campaign, stressing that he would make sure it was possible for them to do this even if it wasn’t currently possible, stating that:
“If you can’t, I’ll make sure you can. Can we donate to the Trump campaign using crypto? I believe the answer is yes.”
As a reminder, Trump had gradually shifted his crypto stance, moving from believing that “Bitcoin (BTC) is a scam” to launching his own NFT collection called Trump Digital Trading Cards and, more recently, the Mugshot Edition, to a more friendly position regarding paying with Bitcoin and other crypto assets.
