Article Title: Donald Trump Set To Dine With NFT Buyers At Mar-a-Lago Report

Article Text:
Republican presidential frontrunner Donald Trump is scheduled to dine with purchasers of his Trump “Mugshot Edition” NFTs Wednesday at his Mar-a-Lago estate in a break from his highly publicized hush money trial over claims made by adult film star Stormy Daniels.According to a copy of a dinner invitation reviewed by Axios, the presumptive Republican nominee will host supporters who bought a minimum of 47 Trump NFTs (each worth $99 in value).
Trump, who purportedly made upwards of $1 million selling his self-branded NFTs in 2022 alone, originally launched the “Mugshot Edition” of his digital souvenirs last December in an attempt to capitalize off of his August 2023 arrest for trying to overturn Georgia’s 2020 election results.The former U.S. president had previously advertised the dinner as a “once-in-a-lifetime experience,” with those who purchase over 100 NFTs eligible for “exclusive treasures” given out during his Mar-a-Lago Gala dinner.Just last month, the team behind Trump Digital Trading Cards announced that a select number of his “Mugshot Edition” NFTs had officially been inscribed as Bitcoin ordinals.
TRUMP DIGITAL TRADING CARDS on BITCOIN ORDINALS.
Great News Collectors! Today we officially inscribed the FIRST EVER Trump Digital Trading Card Bitcoin Ordinals. You can see them here:https://t.co/8A41LPsabo
— CollectTrumpCards (@CollectTrump) April 26, 2024
“We announced that certain buyers of the Mugshot Edition would be eligible for a One-Of-One Trump Bitcoin Ordinal as part of their purchase,” an X statement posted by the NFT project in April read. “We are pleased to announce they are officially inscribed on the Bitcoin Blockchain FOREVER!”
Trump isn’t the only one in his family to enter the NFT market. Former First Lady Melania Trump is currently selling themed necklaces with matching NFTs ahead of Mother’s Day.
The Republican frontrunner has touted a pro-crypto stance on the election trail, vowing to block the creation of a Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) if elected U.S. president in November.Meanwhile, Democratic President Joe Biden’s administration has called for greater regulation within the blockchain sector.
Current polling shows both candidates are neck and neck in the race for the White House. The Digital Currency Group’s recent “Crypto Attitudes in Swing States” report shows that 20% of voters believe crypto is a key issue in the upcoming elections.
Trump has been engulfed in a media frenzy in recent weeks as he battles 34 counts of falsifying business charges that purportedly show his approval of the sending of $130,000 worth of hush money to Stormy Daniels during his 2016 presidential campaign.
Daniels took the witness stand Tuesday detailing the scandal, with Trump’s lawyers ultimately motioning for a since-denied mistrial request based on the merit of Daniels’ testimony.
Trump is due back in court Thursday where Daniels will continue her cross-examination.
