Article Title: El Salvador launches an online platform to track its Bitcoin Treasury

Article Text:
El Salvador has just launched an online platform where you can track its Bitcoin Treasury. It is a new website dedicated to providing financial transparency of government operations related to BTC.
Summary
El Salvador, the country that made Bitcoin legal tender in September 2014, has just launched a new online platform where you can track its Bitcoin Treasury.
Confirming this is The Bitcoin Office, a Salvadoran government agency responsible for overseeing all projects related to BTC:
El Salvador now has its own @mempool space where anyone can check out our #bitcoin treasury holdings.See details in the next post. pic.twitter.com/PEpVemHoFO
“El Salvador now has its @mempool where anyone can check our availability of #bitcoin. Details in the next post.”
Basically, the new website provides public access to data on the country’s BTC investments through a custom mempool.
Specifically, this new move by El Salvador aims to establish a new reference point for the financial transparency of government operations.
At the time of writing, El Salvador owns 5,748.76 BTC, equivalent to over $352.8 million.
According to the data reported by the new online platform that tracks El Salvador’s Bitcoin Treasury, it seems that in the last month, the Salvadoran government has purchased another 31 BTC.
Not only that, it is also possible to notice that in the last week, El Salvador has purchased another 7 BTC.
This is the celebrated strategy of accumulating bitcoin, proclaimed by President Nayib Bukele already in November 2022, for which the country of El Salvador buys “1 Bitcoin per day”.
With this new interface, the Latin American country continues to be at the forefront on the topic of Bitcoin and blockchain.
In this regard, there are those who believe that all these strategies will lead El Salvador to become one of the richest and most innovative countries in the world within 30 or 40 years, thanks to Bitcoin. Supporting this theory, was the famous venture capitalist Tim Draper.
The search engine giant, Google, announced in mid-April that it will open a new office in El Salvador to help support the country’s digital transformation.
Without specifying any connection with Bitcoin, Google has decided to dedicate itself to supporting the Central American country in initiatives in the digital government sectors, such as health and education. These initiatives are actually already underway.
Therefore, at the moment, what is known is that the internet giant will be supporting El Salvador more closely, even regarding the modernization of its government services and economic development.
