Article Title: El Salvador Launches Dedicated Mempool For Public Bitcoin Treasury Assessment

Article Text:
El Salvador, the first country to make Bitcoin a legal tender, has continued to accumulate the pioneer cryptocurrency. The South American nation also noted in a post on X that it now has a dedicated mempool space where anyone can check out its Bitcoin treasury holdings.
El Salvador now has its own @mempool space where anyone can check out our #bitcoin treasury holdings.See details in the next post. pic.twitter.com/PEpVemHoFO
According to information shared by the El Salvador Bitcoin office, the country accumulated 7 BTC worth $429,072 in the past seven days. The nation’s mempool data also showed that in the past 30 days, El Salvador acquired 30.01 BTC, equivalent to approximately $1.84 million. Following recent accumulations, the nation’s Bitcoin holdings rose to 5,747.76 BTC, equivalent to over $352.3 million.
Beyond information on El Salvador’s Bitcoin treasury holdings, the country’s Bitcoin office portal serves as a hub for real-time information on transaction details on the Bitcoin blockchain. Users on the platform can access widespread information covering various aspects of the transactions happening on the Bitcoin network, including other crucial network details.

For instance, the portal provides real-time information on miners’ rewards, average block fees, and average transaction fees on the Bitcoin network. It also allows users to view the Bitcoin network difficulty adjustment details in real time.
Bitcoin became legal tender in El Salvador on September 7, 2021, one day after the country purchased 400 BTC worth about $20.9 million. With that action, the South American country became the first nation to adopt the flagship cryptocurrency as legal tender.
Despite criticism from several quarters, El Salvador upheld its Bitcoin decision and continued supporting the cryptocurrency. In November 2022, Nayib Bukele, El Salvador’s president, announced the country would buy one Bitcoin daily until the cryptocurrency becomes unaffordable with fiat currencies.
Disclaimer: The information presented in this article is for informational and educational purposes only. The article does not constitute financial advice or advice of any kind. Coin Edition is not responsible for any losses incurred as a result of the utilization of content, products, or services mentioned. Readers are advised to exercise caution before taking any action related to the company.
