Article Title: Here Are Top 10 Altcoins Held by Crypto Wealth Mentor

Article Text:
Levi Rietveld, a widely followed crypto wealth mentor on the X platform, has disclosed the top ten cryptocurrencies that make up his crypto investment portfolio.
In a recent post on X, Rietveld revealed the leading crypto assets he holds in anticipation of the fast-approaching bull market. These assets range from some of the most valuable crypto assets in the market to less prominent tokens. Specifically, they include XRP, RNDR, Hedera (HBAR), Bitcoin, and Stellar (XLM).
These are my top 10 crypto holdings:
1. $HBAR2. $XRP3. $KASPA4. $BTC5. $XLM6. $ICP7. $FIRE8. $RNDR9. $FLARE10. $MYRIA
What is your top crypto?
— Levi | Crypto Crusaders (@LeviRietveld) May 12, 2024
Notably, Rietveld did not provide a specific factor that influenced his selection of these assets. However, it can be inferred that the present and historical performances of these assets, coupled with their distinctive contributions to the blockchain ecosystem, played a role in his selection.
Interestingly, of the top ten most valuable crypto assets on the market, only Bitcoin and XRP made it to Rietveld’s top holdings. Notably overlooked options include BNB, Solana (SOL), Toncoin (TON), Dogecoin (DOGE), and Cardano (ADA).
Regarding performance, Bitcoin is up nearly 50% year-to-date despite the two-month bearish market. As the premier crypto now being recognized as digital gold equivalent, BTC is expected to have a spot in Rietveld’s investment portfolio.
Unlike Bitcoin, XRP has been down 17.59% since the start of 2024. XRP struggles with cumulative negative growth across the 30-day, 60-day, and three-month timeframes. Other assets like SOL and TON, which did not make Rietveld’s top holdings, hold more commendable price performance records.
Essentially, Rietveld’s inclusion of XRP, despite its lack of recent gains, suggests an anticipation of future bullish trends for the asset.
Internet Computer (ICP), RNDR, HBAR, XLM, and KAS are the next set of billion-dollar-valued crypto projects on the crypto wealth mentor’s list.
ICP stands out with a valuation surpassing $5.5 billion, placing it 20th in the market cap rankings. The asset was one of the frontrunners in the early stages of the current bull market, maintaining an impressive 131% increase in its annual gains.
Similarly, RNDR has been a top-performing asset for the last seven months. This asset spearheaded a surge in the last quarter of 2023 and into the first quarter of 2024, mainly as interest in AI-centric crypto projects like Render has escalated. At its current value of $11.31, RNDR retains over 517% gains in its one-year trajectory.
Likewise, Kaspa (KAS) has maintained a comparable 484% growth since last year with its price at $0.1176. Also, HBAR boasts a 113% gain over the past year despite the market-wide dip. In this group, XLM pales in comparison with the more modest 18% growth since 2023.
Other tokens, such as Flare (FLR), FIRE, and MYRIA, that made the list are lower-ranking crypto projects with valuations of $1 billion and below. These assets, except MYRIA, have shown underwhelming performances since last year.
