Article Title: Most Valued Asset Title Will Shift From Gold to Bitcoin, Analysts Speculate 5 Years Until Gold Falls From Grace

Article Text:
In a sparkling discussion kicking off the new week, the crypto community discusses the implications of Bitcoin’s (BTC) rise over the value and place of gold. The discussion ends with the resounding inevitability of gold’s fall from grace and Bitcoin with the title of most valuable asset in the word.
I feel bad for anyone with a significant amount of savings in gold because their wealth is being transferred to anyone holding #Bitcoin   This is why I try to tell as many people as possible that this is happeningOnce you understand how Bitcoin works, you see that fiat and… pic.twitter.com/mSHOPjypWs
As we can see from the discussion above, financial expert Rajat Soni goes into detail of how Bitcoin is already on a journey to dethrone. Presently, Bitcoin (BTC) is still not a concept that most of the world understands.
This means those who accumulate Bitcoin over gold will build wealth beyond measure by the time the rest of the world comprehends what happened. In detail, Soni expresses lament over those who pour their savings into gold instead of Bitcoin (BTC).
Soni says that all those funds going into gold are being transferred to those holding Bitcoin and goes on to explain how. He says fiat and gold are just placeholders for Bitcoin BTC). He points out how once upon 1 ounce of gold was worth over 600 BTC.
Today, he says that the same ounce of gold is worth 0.03 BTC. Then he predicts that in the coming years the same ounce of gold will be worth 0.01 BTC, then 0.001, BTC, and 0.0001 BTC, and so on.
He stressed on how important it is for the public to understand what’s happening and asked if they are even aware of why gold is considered valuable? It is because of a shared delusion that gold will continue to hold value to its industrial uses.
Soni believes its uses give it no value but rather the shared discussion and the expectation for it to continue to hold value. This shared belief will eventually collapse once the majority mindset of value shifts to Bitcoin (BTC). He says this is inevitable because once upon a time gold was considered the hardest money in the world and it is scarce.
Bitcoin is scarce, in low supply, and has become the hardest money in the world in a much shorter time. He concludes that soon no one will want shiny rock that does nothing when Bitcoin is the superior choice. It brings revolution, freedom. Easy access, and movement, and is a greater form of money.
Finally he urges investors to get Bitcoin (BTC) while it is still available and says that gold will be overturned in the next few years. In particular he marks 15 years while other responses to the post believe 5 years is more than sufficient for Bitcoin to steal the title.
