Article Title: Revolut X the new crypto trading platform for the United Kingdom

Article Text:
Revolut, the super financial app, has launched the new crypto trading platform: Revolut X. Dedicated only to users in the United Kingdom, the new crypto-exchange offers fixed fees of 0% for makers and 0.09% for takers.
Summary
Revolut, the famous fintech app, quietly launched its new crypto trading platform: Revolut X.
At the moment, Revolut X is a crypto-exchange dedicated only to UK users who are, however, professional crypto traders.
Not only that, the new platform offers exclusive benefits to its customers, including fixed fees of 0% for makers and 0.09% for takers, regardless of the trading volume, lower than those of competitors.
Even in terms of “on-ramping” and “off-ramping”, Revolut X seems to have been designed to convert fiat and crypto currencies in a simple way, without friction.
To start, the Revolut-signed crypto-exchange will offer its customers trading for over 100 cryptocurrencies, including Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), and Ripple (XRP). In this regard, the company stated that in the coming months, other cryptos will be listed.
To comment on this news, Leonid Bashlykov, head of crypto exchange product at Revolut, takes care of it:
“We are aware that competitive fees and ease of access and exit are at the core of what experienced traders demand from a crypto platform.”
Basically, the mission of Revolu X’s new crypto-exchange will be to serve experienced crypto traders, with this new product specifically designed to meet their needs.
In addition, Bashlykov emphasized how the custody of crypto will work on Revolut X:
“Most of these funds are also kept in cold storage. The rigorous due diligence of the custodian and constant risk monitoring allow us to offer our clients a market-leading solution.”
Recently, Revolut’s app has added FLOKI’s memecoin to its crypto offerings, which at that time recorded a price pump of +16%.
Unfortunately, however, FLOKI follows the general downward trend of the main cryptocurrencies, led by Bitcoin (BTC) which has lost -13% of its price in the last month.
And indeed, at the time of writing, FLOKI is worth $0.00017, a decrease of -20% compared to last month when it was worth $0.00021. At the time of the news of its listing on Revolut, FLOKI had reached a price of $0.00020.
