Article Title: Tether and Bitnob Team up for Crypto Education in Africa

Article Text:
Tether Operations Limited, the digital assets’ leading company, and Bitnob, a fintech company that helps users pay to mobile money wallets and bank accounts, have teamed up to raise awareness of Bitcoin and Stablecoins usage in Africa. This partnership involves educational activities in various universities in Ghana. In this regard, Bitnob hosts educational events in which the students learn more about Bitcoin and Stablecoins and how to practically apply them.
Tether and Bitnob (@Bitnob_official ) Collaborate to Educate Ghanaian University Students on #Bitcoin and StablecoinsRead more:https://t.co/eOTa9MmGKk
The first event is scheduled to occur on May 11th, 2024, at the University of Health and Allied Sciences located in Hohoe. The following events will occur at the University of Ghana in Accra on May 15th, 2024, and at the University of Cape Coast on May 18th, 2024.
As part of the new collaboration, Bitnob will launch a 25-person Ambassador program. Participants will receive intensive education on Blockchain, Bitcoin, and Stablecoins to enable them to spread the knowledge within their communities. Ghana is one of Africa’s cryptocurrency success stories, ranking 29th worldwide in cryptocurrency adoption. Over 700,000 Ghanaians actively trade or own some form of cryptocurrency.
Tether CEO, Paolo Ardoino was elated about the partnership and alluded that the project would provide critical insights on Blockchain and cryptocurrencies. Ardoino also sees the ambassador program as the critical link to fill the knowledge gap.
This collaboration demonstrates Tether’s continued efforts and commitments in democratizing digital education globally, especially in emerging economies. Tether has previously supported training programs in Africa by sponsoring the Africa Tech Summit and The African Bitcoin Conference held in Ghana, aimed at facilitating knowledge and networking opportunities for African citizens.
This partnership between Tether and Bitnob is a positive development toward enhancing financial literacy and educating the public about digital assets in Africa. Although Tether’s main objective in this collaboration is to use its resources to increase digital education in a rapidly growing market such as Ghana, there will no doubt be more noticeable similarities in the future.
Ultimately, this partnership is expected to benefit the whole country and assist in the growth of the digital economy throughout the continent as more people become aware of digital assets like Tether.
