Article Title: Trump Promises a Good Crypto Future, Seeks Crypto Enthusiasts’ Support

Article Text:
In a recent development, former US President Donald Trump has reignited optimism in the future of crypto in the United States if he is elected in the upcoming Presidential Election. Trump highlighted the significance of regulatory clarity in the nation to promote the flourishing of the crypto industry.
The former President accused the current President, Joe Biden, and his administration of their anti-crypto stance and skepticism towards cryptocurrencies. He asserted that Biden is fighting against an entity that he doesn’t understand. He stated,
“Biden doesn’t even know what if you ask Biden. ‘Sir, are you for or against crypto?” What’s that? What? Get me off the stage’… He has no idea, but…very much against it.”
Further, Trump directed his stark criticism towards Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chair Gary Gensler and the Democrats, claiming that their moves are anti-crypto. Trump assured of a potential “good and solid” crypto industry and urged the crypto enthusiasts to vote for him.

“The Democrats are very much against it. And I say this, a lot of people are very much for it. Probably, a lot of people in this group. And I am fine with it. I want to make sure it’s good and solid and everything else. I’,m good with it…If you like crypto, in any form, and it comes in a lot of different forms. If you favor crypto, you better vote for Trump.”
Previously, Trump promised that if he becomes the next US President, he would not use regulatory authority to crack down on Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. He also discussed the recently launched expensive Trump-branded sneakers, adding, “I noticed that so many of them were paid for with this new currency.”
Disclaimer: The information presented in this article is for informational and educational purposes only. The article does not constitute financial advice or advice of any kind. Coin Edition is not responsible for any losses incurred as a result of the utilization of content, products, or services mentioned. Readers are advised to exercise caution before taking any action related to the company.
