Article Title: Why Is the Crypto Market Up Today

Article Text:
The total market capitalization (TOTAL) notes a minor recovery from losing a key support level. Bitcoin’s (BTC) price follows the same cues, and Akash Network (AKT) is leveraging this sentiment, which marks a 15% rally.
In the news today:-
The total value of all cryptocurrencies rose by $20 billion today, bringing the market cap to $2.22 trillion. This bounceback from the support was $2.2 trillion, which had been tested multiple times before.
The investors observed some relief today as the decline paused; however, this may not be the end of it.
Read More: Cryptocurrency Coins vs. Tokens: What’s the Difference?
If the support of $2.2 trillion is lost, the total market cap will find the next crucial support at $2 trillion.
Bitcoin’s price action aligned with the broader market cues as the cryptocurrency jumped back from the support at $61,000. This price has been tested as both support and resistance in the past, making it a critical price point.
A decline below it is still not off the cards, though, given the Relative Strength Index (RSI) is below the neutral line at 50.0.
The RSI is a momentum oscillator that gauges the speed and change of price movements, typically oscillating between 0 and 100. Levels above 70 indicate overbought conditions and below 30 signal oversold conditions.
Read More: What Happened at the Last Bitcoin Halving? Predictions for 2024
Thus, this could lead to a dip below $61,000 despite the pause in bearishness today. This could result in BTC hitting the low of $59,119.
As the broader market cues turned mildly bullish, Akash Network’s (AKT) price leveraged it and jumped. On the daily chart, the altcoin is up by 15%, trading at $4.8, inching close to $5.
The RSI is above 50.0 in the bullish zone, which indicates AKT has a shot at breaching $4.8 to attempt a rally above $5.1.
Read More: 11 Cryptos To Add To Your Portfolio Before Altcoin Season
However, the resistances at $4.8 and $5.1 have both acted as strong barriers in the past. This could result in the rally halting here and AKT observing a correction as it did last week should it fail to breach the resistance.
