Article Title: Why Is the Crypto Market Down Today

Article Text:
The crypto market is cooling down following the recent rally, even as the total market cap (TOTAL) and Bitcoin’s (BTC) price are noting long-term bullishness. Among altcoins, dogwifhat (WIF) is noting the largest decline.
In the news today:
The total crypto market capitalization is currently in the process of securing a breakout from the descending triangle reversal pattern. This pattern forms with a flat support line and lower highs, signaling a potential bullish reversal when the price breaks above the upper trendline with increasing volume.
At $2.24 trillion, total crypto market capitalization could note a minor decline to $2.20 trillion or lower to test the falling trend line as support.
Read More: 11 Cryptos To Add To Your Portfolio Before Altcoin Season
However, if total crypto market capitalization notes a reversal and successfully breaches the resistance at $2.3 trillion, it could continue its recovery.
Bitcoin’s (BTC) price is currently stuck within a flag pattern after failing to breach the flag’s upper trend line. A flag pattern emerges as a brief consolidation after a strong price move, presenting a continuation signal when the price breaks out in the direction of the initial trend.
At the time of writing, the cryptocurrency is above the $61,846 support level, which it will likely test. But if this support is lost, BTC could end up testing the flag’s lower trend line.
Read More: Bitcoin Halving History: Everything You Need To Know
On the other hand, if Bitcoin’s price bounces back from $61,846, a potential breakout from the pattern could be observed. This would place BTC on the path to reclaiming $68,500.
Dogwifhat (WIF) price, over the past 24 hours, fell below the $3.18 support level, noting a 12% decline. This is due to the waning bullishness in the market in the past day. This could send the meme coin towards the support of $2.72.
Read More: Dogwifhat (WIF) Price Prediction 2024/2025/2030
If WIF bounces back from this support, it could see a rally to $3 and beyond. This would be essential to invalidating the bearish outlook.
