Article Title: ‘$1 Million Bitcoin’ Advocate Samson Mow Issues Bullish BTC Call Details

Article Text:
Active Bitcoin supporter and CEO of Jan3 Samson Mow has published a tweet about the recent surge in BTC demand which tremendously surpasses the Bitcoin supply now.
He also made a prediction that a new conflict around the world’s flagship digital currency is likely to arise soon.
Bitcoin OG Samson Mow, who used to work as CSO at Adam Back’s Blockstream, made a reminder to his audience on the X platform that American spot Bitcoin ETFs continue to buy massive amounts of BTC on a daily basis.
Currently, he specified, these ETFs are scooping up approximately 1,626 BTC per day. However, it is now only these exchange-traded funds that are grabbing a lot of Bitcoin regularly. Aside from them, there is also Michael Saylor-led MicroStrategy that is buying 199 BTC per day, Mow claims, and Tether that is acquiring 70 BTC per day.
Samson concluded that with only 450 BTC minded daily since the new halving in April, the overall aggregate demand for the leading cryptocurrency has now likely surpassed the available supply 5-10x. “Plan accordingly,” is the tip he gave to the Bitcoin community.
U.S. ETFs are buying 1,626 BTC per day.@MicroStrategy is buying 199 BTC per day.@Tether_to is buying 70 BTC per day.There are only 450 #Bitcoin mined per day. Total aggregate demand is likely 5-10x supply. Plan accordingly. ♎️pic.twitter.com/fshInf0Jas
In a recent interview, an extract of which was shared by the Jan3 official account this week, Mow shared that he expects a new Bitcoin conflict to happen soon. He is not sure when exactly it is to happen but “it’s going to make the previous one pale in comparison,” according to Samson.
The previous Bitcoin conflict would seem just like “a couple of kids in the schoolyard slapping each other.”
Another great #Bitcoin war may be in sight, and both armies and weaponry continue to evolve. Have you picked sides yet? Be ready, because you might be fighting Blackrock and Fidelity in a few years. 👀 pic.twitter.com/Gkp9TOnpVN
The reason why a new Bitcoin war may happen, Mow believes, is that a lot of things here have changed and BTC has gone mainstream, so much bigger players than before are emerging now. If ten years ago the community believed that Coinbase and Bitmain were the big ones, Mow explained, then now there are BlackRock and Fidelity giants involved with BTC.
The new conflict may be about the Bitcoin block size, according to Mow, or over anything else, such as over adding “a travel rule into Bitcoin.” And this conflict is going to be 10x or 100x what it was in the past.
